The Mikuriya Japanese Podcast
Everyone, Happy New Year!
By the time you're listening to this, I think it's already January 1st,
and it's still December when I'm recording this, so I haven't had a new year yet,
but I think it's already 2025 for those of you who are listening to this in the future.
Yes, Happy New Year!
Everyone, this is the first episode of the year.
Do you have any New Year's resolutions?
Have you ever heard of a New Year's resolution?
You may have heard of it in my podcast,
but a New Year's resolution is a goal for this year.
What do you want to do this year? What kind of goal do you want to achieve this year?
You think about it and make a New Year's resolution.
I'm the type of person who doesn't make a New Year's resolution.
Because even if I make a New Year's resolution,
I will forget that New Year's resolution after April.
I remember it until January, February, and March,
but I forget it in April, so I realized that there is no point in making a New Year's resolution.
Since then, I haven't made a New Year's resolution at all.
What is your New Year's resolution?
If you can't make a New Year's resolution, what do you want to do this year?
I can't make a New Year's resolution,
but I'm trying to think about how I want to live this year and what I want to cherish this year.
So, in today's episode,
First, I would like to share the questions I looked back on last year and the questions I will ask myself this year.
You often say that good quality questions make a good quality life, right?
So, I came up with five questions today.
Okay, so the first one.
What do you think you are proud of looking back on last year?
Before we talk about this year,
let's think about what you have achieved or worked hard for last year.
It doesn't matter if it's small, so let's think about it.
Well, when we look back on a year, we usually reflect on it, right?
I think we think, oh, this wasn't good, or I should have done this a little more,
but I don't think I think about what I did my best and what I'm proud of.
So, I'm going to stop this podcast here,
and I want you to ask yourself three things that you are proud of.
Well, I think there are quite a few people who go on to the next project without celebrating what they have achieved, right?
I was like that too.
It's important to reflect on and analyze what you have failed,
but I think it's just as important to celebrate what you have achieved.
So, I think it's better to think about what you have worked hard for a year and give yourself a reward.
For example, when you work hard, you can go to a convenience store and buy a cheesecake that is more expensive than usual.
I think it's better to give yourself a reward.
I don't think it's easy to praise yourself for what you've done in this busy modern society,
so think of this as a good opportunity.
Before you think about this year, first look back at last year.
Do you look back at the end of the year?
I look back at what I've learned this year, what I've worked hard for this year,
and what I thought I should improve a little more,
but do you look back at the end of the year?
I personally feel that looking back at the end of the year is more important than building a new year's resolution.
It's the same for me, but I think there are a lot of things I've learned over the year,
so I think it's a good idea to write them down in a notebook or record them in a voice memo for yourself.
That's the first question.
The second question I want you to ask yourself is your current state.
I want you to think about your current health, your current relationship with people, your current financial situation, your current work situation, and your current play situation in five categories.
First of all, your health.
How is your current state of health, everyone?
I think I ate a little too much chocolate.
It's better not to eat too much sweets, but I regret that I ate too much sweets last year.
How about you guys?
Did you exercise?
I started going to the gym and doing muscle training, but it's pretty tough.
I've only done aerobic exercise so far.
Aerobic exercise is running, walking, swimming, etc.
It's an exercise that burns fat.
Muscle training is a non-oxygen exercise.
What was it? Was it non-oxygen? I forgot a little.
I've never done muscle training with a machine in earnest, so I'm learning a lot right now.
I want to continue that.
Muscles are important after all.
When I was young, I was fine without doing anything, but as I get older, I get more and more tired.
I think it's easier to get tired because the amount of muscle is decreasing.
I felt a little less tired after I started muscle training, so I want to do my best with muscle training.
How is your current health?
The same goes for eating. How is your eating?
Are you eating something good for your body?
How about exercise? What kind of exercise are you doing?
My gym trainer said that if I didn't exercise four times a week, I would lack exercise.
Lack of exercise means that you don't exercise enough.
It's okay if you do it four times a week, but isn't four times a week quite a lot?
When I first heard about it, I was surprised to hear that you need to exercise four times a week to lack exercise.
That's how modern people don't exercise enough, right?
How many points out of five do you rate your health?
I think I'm four out of five.
After all, I eat too much sweets, bread, and flour, so I have to be careful about that.
It seems that you should think about a concrete method to analyze your current health and make it better this year.
A concrete method is what you actually do.
For example, the goal of going to the gym is not concrete at all.
How many times a week do you go to the gym?
What time do you go to the gym?
It seems that it is important to think about these things concretely.
And it is important to put it into action this year.
The second one is human relations.
How many points out of five do you rate your relationship with people?
Are you satisfied?
Relationship with family, relationship with partner, relationship with children, relationship with friends...
How is it?
After all, it seems that human relations are the most important thing to be happy.
I think it's a good idea to rethink your current relationship and think about a concrete method to build a better relationship with your loved ones this year.
For example, if you want to build a deeper relationship with your friends,
I think about how to build a deeper relationship with your friends.
What kind of activities can I do to have a deeper conversation?
Also, for example, if the human relationship at work is not good now,
I think it's a good idea to think about how to make it better.
I don't think it's necessary to make it better.
If you want to get along with people at work,
If you want to get along with your colleagues,
I think it's a good idea to think about what you should do.
For example, invite everyone to a drink party,
I think it's okay to go bowling with everyone.
I think it's a good idea to think about how to get along with that person more specifically.
The next category is money.
I think it's a good idea to think about how to spend your money now.
What am I spending too much money on?
On the contrary, I think it's a good idea to think about what you should invest more of your money in.
Investing means...
I think some people invest in stocks,
I think some people invest in themselves,
It means spending money.
For example, if you think your current way of spending your money is not good,
I think it's a good idea to think about how to make your money better.
Next, work.
How many points out of 5 do you think you are satisfied with your job?
Well, I think people have different values,
If you don't think your job is that important in your life,
There's no problem with 2 or 1 out of 5 points.
I think it's a good idea to think that your job is for making money.
If you're in a business now,
I think it's a good idea to analyze your current job.
I think it's a good idea to think about how to make your job better or more fun.
Next, play.
I think some people want to make their play out of 5 points because it's okay to have 2 points for work.
Did you play a lot last year?
Did you make time to play?
I think there are a lot of busy people,
Playing is really important.
I think it's really important to make time to play.
I used to be a workaholic,
I only worked,
I've been playing a lot lately.
The priorities have changed,
I realized that work is important, but playing is also important.
I think I'm playing a lot.
Playing is not just playing with friends,
For example, enjoying your hobby time,
It's about doing what you like,
For example, if you like to do creative things,
How do you use your creativity now?
Creativity is about creativity.
Thinking about how you play in your life,
What should I do to play more this year?
I think it will be a more fun year.
Even if you say play, I think it depends on the person.
I think some people want to play with their friends,
I want to read a lot of books alone.
This is also a play.
If you like to read books,
It will be a play, I think anything is fine.
Thinking about how long you've been doing what you like in your life,
If you feel like you don't have enough time to play,
How can I increase my play time?
I think it's good to think about how to play more.
This is the second question.
There were five categories for the second question, so it's a little long.
I think it's good to think about health, relationships, money, work, and play.
This is the second thing I want you to ask yourself.
Are you having fun studying Japanese?
It's hard to study grammar alone using textbooks,
I think there are many people who are busy and don't have time to study.
So I made a grammar shadowing audio course so that everyone can study Japanese while doing something like commuting, housework, or taking a walk.
If you take this course, you will not only learn grammar, many words, and expressions, but also improve your speaking skills.
In this course, I practice a lot of Japanese sentences in my head,
and then I practice shadowing by speaking out loud,
so my pronunciation improves and it's a little easier to speak Japanese.
So far, a lot of people have taken this course.
A lot of people have taken this course and have become more confident in their Japanese.
If you want to connect with a lot of people in Japanese,
if you want to actually be able to speak Japanese, please take this course.
You can try it for free, so if you'd like, please give it a try.
You can also use a 10% off coupon now.
There is a coupon code in the show notes, so please use it if you'd like.
Okay, please look forward to the second half of the episode.
Hai, ja tsugi, mitsume.
Dare to seikou wo wakachi aeru ka?
Kore chotto muzukashii nihongo nandesu kedo,
wakachi aeru tte iu no wa share dekiru tte iu koto desu ne.
Jinsei subete ga umaku iku wake ja nai kara,
subete ga umaku itteru toki dake ja nakute,
tsurai toki mo soba ni ite kureru hito wa dare desu ka?
Jibun ga seikou shitara,
jibun no koto no you ni yorokonde kureru hito wa dare desu ka?
Sou iu hitotachi wa hontou ni takaramono dakara,
kotoshii sono hitotachi to motto tsunagaru tame ni,
jibun ga dekiru koto wa nani ka na? tte kangaeru to ii to omoimasu.
Nande kono shitsumon wo shite hoshii ka to iu to,
mainichi isogashii seikatsu wo okutte iru to,
jibun ni totte sugoku taisetsu na hito wa irun dakedo,
sono hito to no jikan ga torenakatta ii to ka mo suru to omon desu yo ne.
Demo sou iu hontou ni jibun no seikou wo,
jibun no koto no you ni yorokonde kureru hito to ka,
tsurai toki wa soba ni ite kureru hito tte,
tokubetsu na takaramono da to omon desu yo.
Hontou ni tokubetsu na sonzai.
Minna ga minna sou ja nai kara,
jibun ni totte sono hito wa dare ka na? tte kangaete mite kudasai.
kazoku ka mo shirenai shi,
shinyuu ka mo shirenai shi,
jibun no partner ka mo shirenai shi,
kodomo ka mo shirenai shi.
Hito sorezore chigau to omon desu kedo,
jibun ni totte hontou ni sasae ni natte kureru hito,
de gyakuni sasae ni naritai hito wa dare ka na? tte kangaete,
ima sono hito tachi to fukaku tsunagawaru jikan wa arimasu ka?
issho ni omoide wo tsukuru jikan wa arimasu ka?
maa, isogashii hito mo iru to omon desu kedo,
sou iu jikan tte hontou ni kakegae no nai kichou na jikan dakara,
modotte kuru koto ga nai jikan dakara,
sou iu hito tachi to no jikan wo hontou ni taisetsu ni,
watashi mo shitai shi,
minna san ni mo hontou ni hito to no tsunagari wo taisetsu ni,
shite hoshii, shite hoshii to iu ka,
sou iu jinsei tte hontou ni yutaka da naa tte watashi wa omoimasu,
minna san wa dou omou ka wakannai kedo,
hontou ni tsurai toki mo soba ni ite kureru hito,
tte iu no wa tokubetsu na jinsei no takaramono dakara,
sou iu hito wa dare ka na? tte jibun no naka de chotto kangaete mite hoshii na to omoimashita.
jaa tsugi yotsume,
yotsume wa jibun ni totte hontou ni taisetsu na koto wa nani?
kachikan tte iu no wa jibun ni totte taisetsu na koto nandesu kedo,
kachikan tte ichi nende kawatteru kamo shirenai desu yo ne,
dakara teiki teki ni jibun ni kono shitsumon wo suru koto wa,
kekko daiji da naa tte watashi wa kojinteki ni omoimasu.
yappari kachikan hontou ni kawarimasu yo ne,
toshi wo toru ni tsurete jibun no kachikan mo don don kawatte iku shi,
jibun no yuusen juni mo kawaru to omondesu yo.
dakara nani ga ichiban daiji ka tte iu no wo kangaete,
jibun ni totte taisetsu na koto wo taisetsu ni suru tame ni,
donna shuukan wo tsukureba ii ka wo kangaeru to sugoku ii to omoimasu.
tatoeba taisetsu na hito to sugosu jikan ga ichiban daiji da tte omou hito wa,
jibun no sukejyuuru wo mite isshuukan no naka de,
doko ni sono taisetsu na hito to sugosu jikan wo tsukureru kana to kangaemasu.
maa donichi kamoshirenai shi, heijitsu no yoru kamoshirenai shi, wakaranai kedo,
hontoni jibun de ishiki shite jikan wo tsukuranai to,
dondon dondon jikan tte nakunate ikimasu yo ne.
sore koso ima hontoni sns toka ne,
ano, instagram toka tiktok toka iroiro aru kara,
jibun ga hontoni taisetsu ja nai koto ni jikan wo tsukatte shimau koto tte aru to omondesu yo.
dakara jibun ga ichiban yuusen shitai koto no tame ni jikan ga tsukaenaku nattari suru to omondesu yo ne.
ima no jidai wa tokuni sore wo ishiki shinai to dondon jikan wa sugite shimau to omou no de,
jibun no sukejyuuru wo mite jissai ni doko ni sono jikan wo tsukureru kana tte kangaeru to ii to omoemasu.
sou suru to hontoni jibun ga taisetsu na koto no tame ni jikan ga tsukaeru to omoemasu.
gyakuni hitori no jikan ga sugoku daiji da to omou hito wa,
hitori no jikan wo doko ni tsukureru kana tte jissai ni sukejyuuru wo mite kangaete,
sore wo sukejyuuru ni ireru to ii to omoemasu.
watashi ga yatteiru no wa,
yohaku no jikan wo tsukuru koto desu.
watashi wa ne hontoni ishiki shite nakattara,
dondon dondon iron na koto wo sukejyuuru ni irete shimau ndesu yo.
sukejyuuru ga panpan ni natte storesu ga tamatte shimau.
dakara nanimo shinai jikan tte iu no wo sukejyuuru ni irete iru ndesu ne.
sou suru to yotei wo irenai no de,
shizen to hitori no jikan wo sugosu koto ga dekiru shi,
shizen to jibun ga suki na koto no tame ni jikan ga tsukaeru,
dakara asobu jikan mo tsukuremasu yo ne.
sukejyuuru ni irete nai to,
hontoni mo iron na koto wo tsume konde shimatte kurushiku naru no de,
sore wa sugoku osusume no honhou desu.
Hai.
dakara yotsume no shitsumon wa,
jibun ni totte taisetsu na koto wa nani?
tte iu shitsumon to,
sono jibun ni totte taisetsu na koto wo yuusen suru tame ni,
donna shuukan wo tsukureba ii ka kangaeru koto desu ne.
Hai.
chotto kangaete mite kudasai.
Jaa tsugi, saigo desu ne.
Itsutsume.
Kotoshi kangaeru dake de wakuwaku suru koto wa nan desu ka?
Kotoshi tanoshimitai koto wa nan desu ka?
Hai, minasan saikin wakuwaku shite masu ka?
Ima kangaeru dake de wakuwaku suru koto arimasu ka?
Watashi wa,
ni-sen-ni-ji-go-nen san-gatsu ni,
mekishiko ni hisashiburi ni kaeru desu yo.
Nananenburi ni naru no ka na?
Nananenburi desu ne.
Nananenburi ni mekishiko ni kaete,
mekishiko no mama ni aun desu kedo,
sore wo kangaeru dake de mou wakuwaku shite masu.
Wakuwaku shite masu.
Hisashiburi ni mama ni atte,
issho ni jikan wo sugosu koto ga hontou ni tanoshimi desu.
Dakara, kangaeru dake de wakuwaku suru no de,
ima kara supeingo wo renshuu shiteru desu kedo,
Sonna fuu ni, wakuwaku suru koto tte iu no wa,
watashitachi ni motibēshon wo ataete kureru to omon desu yo ne.
Ikiru motibēshon wo ataete kureru to omon desu yo ne.
Ne, nanka yaranake ikenai koto toka,
yatta hō ga ii koto tte don don omoitsuku to omon desu yo.
Watashi mo sō de,
ah, kore yaranakya toka,
itsu made ni kore wo yatte okanakya,
mitai na koto wa yoku omoitsuku desu kedo,
wakuwaku suru koto wa nani kana tte,
anmari kangaenai to omon desu yo,
isogashii mainichi wo ikiteru to.
Kangaeru hito mo iru to omon desu kedo,
kangaeru no wo wasurete shimau koto mo aru to omon desu yo ne.
Chiisai koto demo ii n desu kedo,
minasan ga kangaeru dake de wakuwaku suru koto wa nan desu ka?
Ne, ima kore wo kiite te,
wakuwaku suru koto nai yo tte omotte iru hito mo iru kamo shirenai desu kedo,
sore demo ii to omoimasu.
Sō iu jiki mo jinsei ni wa aru kara,
wakuwaku suru koto ga nakattara,
ja, ima wa yukkuri yasumu jiki nandana tte omoeba ii kara,
wakuwaku shinai to ikenai wake ja nai desu ne.
Tatoeba, wakuwaku shinakute mo,
kotoshi nani wo tanoshimitai kana tte kangaete,
nani ka hitotsu demo omoi ukandara,
sore wo kotoshi yatte miru to,
motto tanoshii jinsei ni naru to omoimasu.
なんでこんな質問をみなさんにシェアしてるかというと、
やっぱり私も含めて、
意識しないと同じことを繰り返してしまうのが人間だと思うんですよね。
無意識のまま同じことを繰り返すのが人間。
だから、新年の抱負を立てるのも素敵なことなんですけど、
自分が今どんな価値観を持ってて、
何を優先したいのかを考えることってすごく大事だと思うんですよ。
自分の時間を本当に大切にするために。
っていうのはさっきもちょっと言ったんですけど、
時間ってどんどんどんどん過ぎるじゃないですか。
で、本当にどうでもいいことに2,3時間使っちゃったなっていうことって、
人間誰でもあると思うんですよ。
私もあるんですけど。
でも、年の始めにこうやって、自分は今年はどんなことを大切にしたいかなとか、
今年はどんな人と一緒に過ごしたいかなって考えることで、
時間を自分にとって大切じゃないことに使わなくて済むと思うんですよね。
使ってしまうかもしれないんだけど、毎日それを繰り返すことはなくなると思う。
本当に時間って戻ってこないし、
時間はお金で買えるものでもないから、
自分にとって大切なこととか、
自分が優先したいことに使うのが一番満足できる時間の使い方かなと思います。
皆さん、このポッドキャスト聞いたあとでもいいので、
この5つの質問を自分にしてみてください。
もう一回言いますよ。
1番目、去年1年間振り返って自分を誇りに思うことは何?
2つ目、今の自分の健康はどうかな?
今の自分の人間関係はどうかな?
今の自分のお金の状況はどうかな?
今の自分の仕事はどうかな?
今の自分の遊びはどうかな?
この5つを考えてみてください。
3つ目は、誰と成功を分かち合えるか。
誰がつらいときも、自分が成功したときも、そばにいてくれるか。
4つ目は、自分にとって本当に大切なことは何か。
で、その自分が大切なことをどうやったら優先できるか。
で、5つ目、最後は、考えるだけでワクワクすることは何か。
はい、この5つを考えてみてください。
私も新年が明けたら、自分にこの質問をしてみたいと思います。
みなさんは、これを聞いているのは1月1日だと思うので、
時間があったら、時間があったらとは言わずに、
ぜひ、この質問を自分にしてみてください。
はい、ということで、今日はこれぐらいで終わりにしたいと思います。
みなさん、今日も聞いてくれてありがとうございました。
じゃあ、また次のエピソードで会いましょう。
みなさん、今年もよろしくね。
じゃあ、またね。バイバイ。
みなさん、今日も聞いてくれてありがとうございました。
Please don't forget to follow this podcast so that you will not miss any of my future episodes.
And if you like to improve your Japanese fast and effectively,
please check out my course.
Now, you can listen to a few sample audios for free on my website,
so you can check it out and see how it works.
You have nothing to lose, so please try it if you like.
It's an audio course, so you get to listen to it anywhere while doing anything,
just like when you're listening to my podcast.
So, in this course, you will learn the most powerful grammar to express yourself,
master the verb conjugation,
expand your vocab because I make sure to use new vocab and expressions in each audio,
and you will have more confidence in speaking Japanese.
So, if you want to become fluent fast and learn not boring sentences that we never use,
but real Japanese that we actually use here in Japan and connect with people,
please check it out.
The link is in the description box.
Okay, 最後まで聞いてくれてありがとう。
じゃ、またね。